# Phase Transition of a Triangular Lattice Ising Model Using Monte Carlo Metropolis Algorithm
  Here we numerically calculate the phase transition temperature for an Ising model of a ferromagnetic triangular lattice.  As a basis, we use code designed to calculate the phase transition temperature for a rectangular lattice and make the appropriate changes.  This code uses the Monte Carlo technique known as the Metropolis Algorithm.  First, each spin of the lattice is stored in an allocated matrix for the specified lattice dimensions.  Then, the datastructure for each variable of the Ising model is created in "ising_datastructure".  The steps for manipulating the lattice elements are given in "metropolis.c" and actually calculations are done in "ising.c", with the main function "ising-demo-metropolis.c" that uses all these functions to actually execute the computation.
  
  The Metropolis Algorithm functions by choosing a random spin on the lattice, changing its spin and calculating the net energy cost due to this change in spin by its interactions with its nearest neighbors.  To decide if this spin is accepted or rejected, a system of probabilities is imposed, which are as follows: 100% probability of accepting a spin that decreases energy, and a temperature and energy dependent probability given by the Boltzman factor.  By doing this many times, after a large number of these "metropolis steps" are executed", the average magnetization per spin, the total energy of the lattice, and the specific heat can be calculated.
  
  Relavent adjustments for changing this code from a rectangular lattice to a triangular lattice are well-commented in the relevant files, most importantly in "ising.c", "ising_datastructure.h", "metropolis.c" and "ising-demo-metropolis.c".  First, when computing the energy change, the total number of neighbors needs to be change from 4 to 6.  Since we view the triangular lattice as a rectangular lattice with a tilted vertical axis, no actual allocation of the spins needs to be changed.  Furthermore, the number of neightbors in the lattice energy calculation needs to be increased from 2 to 3.  To make sense of these increase in possible energy states, more boltzman factors need to be pre-computed - with an increase in possible energy states with nearest neighbors increasing from 16 to 24.
  
  Here, loop this process of a range of different temperatures and calculate the specific heat of the lattice at the given temperature after the metropolis algorithm has been executed.  The phase transition temperature occurs when the specific heat acquires a maximum.  This plot, for the range of temperatures 3.5 - 3.8 (in dimensionless units in terms of the spin coupling strength), is generated automatically by running "ising-demo-metropolis.c" with the makefile - from which we determine the phase transition temperature of the triangular lattice to be approximately Tc = 3.63 (dimensionless). 
